Imagine the astonished look
on the faces of the apostles.
The resurrected Jesus stands before them
on the Mount of Olives.
Just before he disappears into the clouds,
Jesus makes this profound declaration,
as recorded at Acts 1:8:
“You will receive power
when the holy spirit comes upon you,
“and you will be
witnesses of me in Jerusalem,
“in all Judea and Samaria,
and to the most distant part of the earth.”
What an assignment!
They were to preach the good news
of God’s Kingdom
throughout the earth.
Those disciples must have felt overwhelmed
and wondered how
such a small band of preachers
could ever get this work done.
Ten days later, they received
the promised holy spirit,
and they got to work.
True, they faced many challenges.
But that did not stop them.
Three years passed,
and the preaching work
was expanded to include Gentiles.
We can read the moving account
in Acts chapter 10.
First, an angel of God appears
to the God-fearing army officer Cornelius.
Then, Peter responds
to the leadings of God’s spirit
to go to the officer’s home.
There, Peter gives
a thorough witness about Jesus
not only to Cornelius
but also to his family and friends.
As he concludes his discourse,
Peter explains the commission
he received to be an evangelizer.
Let’s open to Acts 10:42,
and note the two main aspects
of the preaching work started by Jesus:
“Also, he ordered us to preach to the people
“and to give a thorough witness
“that this is the one decreed by God
to be judge of the living and the dead.”
First, Jesus commanded his disciples
“to preach to the people.”
In addition, they were
“to give a thorough witness.”
The disciples were to search out
honesthearted, deserving ones.
That would require a thorough coverage
of their territory.
In spite of vicious persecution,
Christians in the first century
obeyed Jesus’ command
to preach and to bear thorough witness.
And by about 60 of our Common Era,
less than 30 years after the Christians
had received their commission,
Paul could write
to the congregation in Colossae
that the good news had been
“preached in all creation under heaven.”
What a testimony to the power
of God’s holy spirit
and the faith, zeal,
and determination of those early disciples!
In the late 1800’s,
a small group of Bible students
rose to the challenge
of bearing thorough witness.
An article in the April 1881 issue
of Zion’s Watch Tower
had the thrilling title
“Wanted 1,000 Preachers.”
Today, Jehovah’s Witnesses
are bearing witness
in 240 lands.
But doing so has its challenges.
What are some of those challenges,
and what can we do to meet them?
Many of our brothers face
the challenge of long distances,
climate extremes, rough terrain,
and poor travel conditions.
In some areas, just getting
to meet people
is a challenge.
To add to the challenge,
Revelation 14:6 reminds us
that the good news would be declared
“to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.”
This can require learning a new language
and understanding
different religious, ethnic,
and cultural backgrounds.
It can mean coping
with unresponsive territories,
apathy, and poor living conditions.
Jesus warned that opposers would try
to hinder or stop the preaching work.
No doubt you are facing
some form of challenge
in your local territory.
We cannot begin to give possible solutions
to all the obstacles we face today.
But it is helpful to learn how others
are coping with their challenges,
and this can stimulate our thinking
to identify ways to meet our challenges.
Let’s focus on three Bible principles
that will help us
to carry out our ministry successfully:
(1) Trust in Jehovah,
(2) be flexible,
and (3) stay focused.
How can trusting in Jehovah help us?
Consider an example.
During the 1990’s,
Jehovah’s Witnesses in France
endured an avalanche
of negative media reports.
As a result of these vicious attacks,
some brothers lost their jobs,
Witness children were taunted at school,
preaching became extremely difficult
in some areas.
How did they cope?
The turning point came in January 1999.
The Governing Body approved
a special campaign
to distribute a magazine-size tract
that exposed all of the accusations as false.
Beginning early one Friday morning,
Witnesses throughout France
distributed 12 million copies of the tract
in just three days.
This campaign gave them renewed strength
and boldness to preach.
In the 19 years that followed,
there was a continuous increase
in the number of publishers
and the ranks of regular pioneers
swelled to over 15,000.
If you constantly face a barrage
of negative media reports,
does this mean that you need
a special campaign to meet the challenge?
Not necessarily.
Although the campaign was a stimulus,
brothers and sisters in France said
that what really gave them
strength and boldness
were the words of 2 Chronicles 32:8.
Let’s read it.
The setting is in the time
of King Hezekiah of Judah.
The people were beaten down
by the repeated threats
and taunts of the Assyrians.
What strengthened them?
Speaking about the king of Assyria,
King Hezekiah declared:
“With him is an arm of flesh,
“but with us is Jehovah our God to help us
and to fight our battles.”
What was the result?
“The people were strengthened
by the words of King Hezekiah of Judah.”
Just hearing this reminder
that Jehovah would help them
was enough to strengthen the Jews.
Jehovah took action and sent an angel
to destroy the enemy army.
Does Jehovah use his angels to help us today?
Note what we read at Revelation 14:6:
“I saw another angel flying in midheaven,
“and he had everlasting good news to declare
“to those who dwell on the earth,
“to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.”
Be sensitive to angelic direction
and the leadings of God’s holy spirit.
If you feel moved to make that one last call
or to speak to the person
next to you on the bus, do it!
Speak up.
It may well be
that an angel is directing you
to one who is “rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
Now let’s consider the second Bible principle
that will help us to bear thorough witness:
Be flexible.
Sometimes just getting to talk to people
can be a challenge.
To overcome this obstacle,
we need to be flexible.
Takanori and Yumi Takahashi
have served in territories
that are as different as night and day.
Recently, they visited our studio.
Listen as they tell us how they have learned
to meet the challenges
of bearing thorough witness.
Takanori and Yumi,
welcome to our studio!
Thank you for inviting us.
And we’re very happy to have you here.
Takanori, you and I go back a long way.
I still remember when you came
into Japan Bethel back in 1977,
and we served in the same congregation
for a number of years.
But then in 1990, you had
a big change in your life.
Would you like to tell us what happened?
Yes, my twin brother,
Nobuaki, was also serving at Bethel.
To our surprise, we were assigned
to Papua New Guinea as missionaries.
That was a big change!
And here you are working
in the rural territory of Papua New Guinea.
During your 25 years in Papua New Guinea,
I understand that you served
in the missionary field,
in the circuit work, and also at Bethel.
So, Yumi, when did you come into the picture?
Takanori and I were married
in September 1993,
and I joined him in the missionary work.
Adapting to remote territories such as this
was a challenge.
So in order to bear thorough witness,
what kind of challenges
did you have to overcome?
The people of Papua New Guinea
are very friendly.
They have a deep respect for the Bible.
It was easy to relax,
speak to them face-to-face,
to read the Scriptures together,
and reason with them.
Those don’t sound like challenges.
Did you face any obstacles?
When we preached in the villages,
the response of the local people
often depended on the response
of the village chief.
If he listened,
almost the whole village listened.
But if his response was negative,
the people would walk away
and hide in the bush.
So we would always show respect
and approach the village chief first.
This often moved him
to view our visit with favor.
The challenge in the cities
was mainly security.
It wasn’t safe for us to go
into some areas alone
or to visit homes regularly.
So we would ask our Bible students
to come to the Kingdom Hall
for their study before the meeting.
That was a good way to encourage them
to attend meetings.
Well, it’s obvious that you enjoyed
your service in Papua New Guinea.
But now you’re serving as special pioneers
in the Maihama Congregation
just 20 minutes from downtown Tokyo.
So you went from a territory
where people have deep respect for the Bible
to a land where less than 1 percent
of the people claim to be Christian.
So, what other kind of differences
did you find
between your territory in Japan now
and your missionary territory?
Oh, it’s very different.
Tokyo Disneyland is in our territory,
and 70 percent of the homes
are in high-security apartment buildings.
We have to stand in the lobby
in front of the doorman,
push a button, and speak to a camera.
Coming from Papua New Guinea,
we found it challenging
to work this territory.
We were used to friendly discussions
face-to-face.
Now we see only the lens of a camera.
But we have learned
to view the camera as our friend.
As your friend?
I think most of us find it challenging
to speak to a camera.
So how do you overcome this challenge?
We know that as soon as we push the button,
our face shows up on a screen
inside of the apartment.
We stand an arm’s length from the camera
so that our face is framed nicely.
And we adjust our volume accordingly,
taking into consideration the doorman
and others who may be listening.
We say our greeting
about two seconds after we push the button,
just when we know
that they are looking at the monitor.
Our friendly greeting and warm smile
makes them feel like we
can actually see their face.
We prepare a specific appealing introduction
and show them respect and consideration.
The people in our territory
like to be viewed as successful,
not as people who have problems.
So we try to focus on positive subjects.
We prepare a variety of subjects
so that they don’t hear
the same message over and over.
Like many people, Japanese do not like
to be put on the spot.
So instead of asking a question
and waiting for them to answer,
we use the teaching method of our tracts
and give three possible answers
for them to choose from.
Well, have you had positive results
from this intercom preaching?
Since we started to use this method,
the number of not-at-homes has decreased.
And also, when we meet people on the street,
sometimes they say they know us
because they saw us on their intercom.
That was excellent!
And thank you, Takanori and Yumi,
for sharing with us
how you have met the challenge
of bearing thorough witness
in a variety of territories.
First Corinthians 9:22, 23
—let’s read it.
“I have become all things
to people of all sorts,
“so that I might
by all possible means save some.
“But I do all things for the sake
of the good news,
in order to share it with others.”
“Become all things.”
“Do all things.”
In other words, be flexible.
Apply the suggestions
in the meeting workbook.
Get well-acquainted with each tool
in the Teaching Toolbox.
Observe how experienced publishers
and pioneers use those tools.
Understand the feelings and circumstances
of people in the territory.
Even in the same territory,
we may need to use a variety of approaches.
For example, about 40 percent
of the apartment buildings
in the Takahashi’s territory
do not allow the Witnesses
to enter the lobby,
so they do public and informal witnessing
to reach those people.
Now let’s consider the third Bible principle:
Stay focused.
At Matthew 6:22, Jesus said:
“The lamp of the body is the eye.
“If, then, your eye is focused,
your whole body will be bright.”
Keeping our eye focused means
keeping our life simple
in order to concentrate on spiritual matters.
Distractions take our attention
and energy away
from our responsibility
to bear thorough witness.
Before we can teach those who are
“rightly disposed for everlasting life,”
we have to find them.
We leave no stone unturned
as we search for them at their homes,
on the streets, in parks,
in stores, and at the workplace.
There’s no on/off switch
for our preaching work.
Our “preaching switch” must be on
at all times.
Not only do we look
for opportunities to preach
but we also make opportunities.
What if our efforts to find interested ones
are not fruitful?
Jesus did not say that every human
must become a disciple before the end comes.
Rather, he said that the end will come
after the good news has been preached
in all the inhabited earth
and a witness has been given
to all the nations.
The apostle Paul stayed
focused on his ministry.
May we imitate his positive attitude
expressed at Acts 20:24:
“Nevertheless, I do not consider my own life
“of any importance to me,
“if only I may finish my course
“and the ministry that I received
from the Lord Jesus,
“to bear thorough witness to the good news
of the undeserved kindness of God.”
The opportunity to bear thorough witness
will soon be over.
May we use the remaining time effectively
to search for deserving ones
and to teach them the truth.
Imitate the faith of Hezekiah,
and trust in Jehovah;
learn from the apostle Paul,
and be flexible;
obey Jesus’ direction,
and stay focused.
Then you too can meet the challenge
of bearing “thorough witness.”